<style>
h3 {
    color: #1a8e87;
}

.highlight {
    color: #d79053;
}
</style>

<h2>Try it out at: <a href="https://thekolaj.github.io/Learn-to-spell/"></a>https://thekolaj.github.io/Learn-to-spell/</h2>

<h2>Instructions</h2>
<h3>What this is</h3>
<p>
    This tool is for people who want to improve their English spelling. You will hear a sentence
    and try to type it into the text area. All the sentences were auto-generated by
    <span class="highlight">ChatGPT 3.5</span> (Please report any mistakes). This project is
    written using TypeScript and Vue.
</p>
<h3>Rules</h3>
<ul>
    <li>All the sentences should be in <span class="highlight">American English</span>.</li>
    <li>Mind the capitalization. Start your sentences with a capital letter.</li>
    <li>You will be presented with only one sentence at a time.</li>
    <li>
    Ending punctuation is <span class="highlight">omitted</span>, you don't need to add
    <span class="highlight">'.!?'</span>
    </li>
    <li>
    You will loop through all the sentences in the exercise until you get them all correct.
    </li>
    <li>
    You can leave and return to the exercise at any time, your
    <span class="highlight">progress will be saved</span>.
    </li>
    <li>Progress is saved in your browser. You can freely reload the page.</li>
    <li>During the first speech playback, you will hear a preview.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Text-to-Speech</h3>
<ul>
    <li>
    App uses the built-in TTS of your OS and Browser, so the quality of playback might vary.
    </li>
    <li>
    You need to select a voice marked <span class="highlight">en-US</span> from the settings
    menu for best results.
    </li>
    <li>
    <span class="highlight">!Android:</span> change TTS language to English in your device's
    (<span class="highlight">Not browser's</span>) accessibility settings.
    </li>
    <li>
    You can adjust the speed of preview and regular speech in the
    <span class="highlight">settings menu</span>.
    </li>
    <li>You can add a small delay between words for regular speech playback.</li>
    <li>This delay might vary based on your OS and Browser.</li>
    <li><span class="highlight">!Android:</span> Pause feature is not properly supported.</li>
</ul>

## Personal thought

### Why this?

This was a passion project of mine, as I struggled to find a similar tool available for free in the past. It took me about 2 weeks to develop. I hope some people can actually find this useful.

### Project goals

1. Understand how built-in TTS works on the modern browser: It was easier to set up than I thought it would be, but harder to get to work consistently across different platforms than it should be. I asked some people to beta test it, and they ALL tried it on Android! Had to add some platform checks, error messages and disclaimers after that.

1. Work with the **difference** algorithm: I used a library based on ["An O(ND) Difference Algorithm and its Variations" (Myers, 1986)](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.4.6927). It's a fascinating problem, how do you tell the difference between two lines of text? I failed to satisfactorily solve it in my head, so I was very glad to find out that someone had already done it. With some rearranging in a for loop, I managed to get the result exactly how I wanted.

1. Create a good user experience with simple controls: The "Enter" key takes you through the whole exercise. Simple and intuitive, love how this works. Not too sure about choosing "Tab" as play pause, though, as it prevents the user from tabbing through buttons, but I could not find a better key to use. I was also very pleasantly surprised that "Enter" works for submitting on mobile. I was primarily developing for desktop, but mobile UX turned out pretty well.

1. Create a style similar to a mobile app: It took a bit of forethought, but I feel like I managed to pull it off. Targeted min-width of 360px, it should cover most devices.

## Project Setup

```sh
npm install
```

### Compile and Hot-Reload for Development

```sh
npm run dev
```

### Type-Check, Compile and Minify for Production

```sh
npm run build
```

### Run Unit Tests with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/)

```sh
npm run test:unit
```

### Run End-to-End Tests with [Playwright](https://playwright.dev)

```sh
# Install browsers for the first run
npx playwright install

# When testing on CI, must build the project first
npm run build

# Runs the end-to-end tests
npm run test:e2e
# Runs the tests only on Chromium
npm run test:e2e -- --project=chromium
# Runs the tests of a specific file
npm run test:e2e -- tests/example.spec.ts
# Runs the tests in debug mode
npm run test:e2e -- --debug
```

### Lint with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/)

```sh
npm run lint
```
